Participants Documentation [13182] (#77)
eProsima/DDS-Router: docs/rst/user_manual/participants/wan.rst

.. include:: ../../exports/alias.include

.. _user_manual_participants_wan:

###

> WAN

Author: :+1:

###

This type of :term:`Participant` refers to a :term:`Discovery Server` :term:`DomainParticipant` that communicates
with other **WAN** Participants in different networks.
This Participant will work as bridge for every Participant working locally in the LAN and any other LAN that has
a |ddsrouter| with an active WAN Participant.

.. warning::

    Do not try to communicate a WAN Participant with any other kind of Participant that is not of type
    WAN Participant.

Use case
========

> Use this Participant in order to communicate an internal DDS network with other networks in different LANs.

Author: :+1:

> Each of the networks to communicate will need a running |ddsrouter|, and the messages will be relay from one to

Author: :+1:

another depending on the topics filtered by each of them.

Type aliases
============

* ``wan``
* ``router``

Configuration
=============

WAN Discovery Server Participant allow configure the standard attributes of a Discovery Server.
To configure the Discovery Server :term:`GuidPrefix`, check the following section
:ref:`Configuration section <user_manual_configuration_domain_id>`.
To configure the Discovery Server listening addresses, check the following section
:ref:`Configuration section <user_manual_configuration_discovery_server_listening_addresses>`.
To configure the Discovery Server connection addresses to connect with other Discovery Servers,
check the following section
:ref:`Configuration section <user_manual_configuration_discovery_server_connection_addresses>`.

.. note::

>     Those addresses in *listening-addresses* and *connection-addresses* use ``TCP`` transport by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The network addresses set in *listening-addresses* and *connection-addresses* use ``UDP`` transport by default
```

Author: :+1:

    if the transport is not specified in the address configuration.

Configuration Example
=====================

> Configure a WAN Discovery Server with ROS2 GuidPrefix with id ``2`` (``44.53.02.5f.45.50.52.4f.53.49.4d.41``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a Local Discovery Server setting the GuidPrefix used for ROS 2 deployments with id ``2`` (``44.53.02.5f.45.50.52.4f.53.49.4d.41``).
```

Author: :-1:  It was my error in the first place.

It listens for clients in public IP ``82.0.0.1`` in port ``11600`` in ``TCP``.

> It connects with a remote WAN Participant in IPv6 address ``2001:4860:4860::8888`` and port ``11666`` which Discovery
> Server GuidPrefix is ``01.0f.04.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.ca.fe`` using ``UDP`` transport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example connects the local Discovery Server Participant with a remote Discovery Server listening in IPv6 address ``2001:4860:4860::8888`` and port ``11666`` and configured with ``01.0f.04.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.ca.fe`` Discovery
Server GuidPrefix.
```

Author: This is a Participant example, not a DDS Router configuration. Please, check this text again
